dentition periods
Primary (Deciduous) Dentition:
The primary dentition consists of a total of 20 teeth that usually begin to erupt by the age of 2.
This set includes four central incisors, four lateral incisors, two canines, and eight molars,
which play a crucial role in early childhood development, including biting, chewing, and speech.
Mixed Dentition:
The mixed dentition phase occurs typically between the ages of 6 and
12, during which children experience the transition from primary to permanent teeth.
This stage involves a combination of both primary teeth, which are gradually lost, and permanent teeth, which are steadily emerging.
This transitional period is essential for proper alignment and development of the jaw.
Permanent Dentition:
The permanent dentition consists of a total of 32 teeth that usually begin to erupt after the age of 12.
This set is more complex and includes eight incisors, four canines, eight premolars, and twelve molars (including the wisdom teeth).
These teeth are designed for a lifetime of use, contributing not only to
effective chewing and eating but also to overall oral health and facial aesthetics.
Proper care is essential at this stage to maintain dental health and prevent issues such as cavities and gum disease.